225 East 95
th St Pawandeep Singh s​ingh@alumni.emory.edu
New York NY – 10128 (​678)-557-0528
Education
Emory University Atlanta, GA
M.S. In Computer Science (Machine Learning Concentration) Aug 2013-May 2015
Completed courses: Data Mining, Machine Learning, Natural Language Processing, Numerical Analysis, Applied
Linear Models, Big Data Analytics.
Guru Tegh Bahadur Institute of Technology New Delhi, India
Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science Aug 2007-May 2011
Completed courses: Artificial Intelligence, Object Oriented Programming Concepts, Data Structures, DBMS
Work Experience
Emory University ​Atlanta, GA
Research Assistant June 2014-Nov 2015
Performed complexity analysis of Personnel Law data over a period of time, measuring entropy and Flesch
score. Measured relative complexity across different countries and relative increase in rate of complexity.
Performed data wrangling and, munging to obtain data from different countries government sites. Further
performed data cleaning and data audit to ensure quality.
Designed the experiment and validated it at individual stages for reliability and consistency.
Used numpy, sklearn, and pandas for implementing the models and visualizations.
Infosys Limited Hyderabad, India
Systems Engineer Sep 2011-June 2013
Worked as part of the offshore team for a major aircraft manufacturer on their Data Delivery Program to deliver
relevant data according to individual airline plane configuration. Developed a file splitting module to split
transaction files for parallel processing of transactions and hence reducing the transaction time by over 50%.Performed unit testing of individual components as new features were added and automated them using JUnit.
Worked mostly on Java, Oracle 9i, IBM Websphere MQ/MB, XML, SQL, Junit, SVN.
Academic Projects
Predictive Modeling of Drug Sensitivity O​ct 2014-Dec 2014
Developed elastic nets and lasso regression models to predict drug sensitivity for different cancer cell lines to
customize treatment for individual patients. Models and visualizations were developed in R.
Used Principal Component Analysis for dimensionality reduction as each individual patient data contained 1639
Mutations, 23316 Copy Number and 18988 Gene Expressions.
Google Entity Recognition and Disambiguation challenge F​eb 2014-May 2014
Participated in the ERD challenge and developed an entity disambiguation model using Clueweb annotated
corpus. we developed named entity linking model followed by mention detection and, disambiguation model
and further used freebase to extend the lexicon.
Early Alzheimer's Detection N​ov 2013-Dec 2

Developed machine learning models using Naive Bayes, SVM and Neural Networks in Matlab to classify people
based on their performance on a web based test using mouse tracking and clicking data.
Further optimized the model using convex optimization, feature normalization and optimized bias-variance
trade-off.
Technical Skills
Languages: ​C, Java, Python, R, Matlab, Pig, HTML/CSS, SQL, XML, Bash scripting.
Libraries & Frameworks:​pandas, numpy, sklearn, Mallet, OpenMPI, Bootstrap, J2EE, grunt.js
Tools & Platforms​: Git, MongoDB, MySQL, Hadoop.
Domain: ​Machine Learning, Data Mining, Predictive Analytics, Natural Language Processing.
Online Courses: ​Udacity A/B Testing and Data Visualization, Stanford Machine Learning.
